# Primes-assignment-1

First to be able to run this main.rs rust file u will need to have install rust using this website https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/rust this will set u up perfectly with a mainrs. You will want to obviously build it with cargo build and can try to debug it first so it can set that up. After that you will run this command to build it rustc main.rs if it isnt under a folder if it is under a folder and you follow the website i posted it would be rustc src\main.rs should work since it will be under the src folder and this command to run it .\main.exe thats the only ay i knew to compile and run it.

# Approach
To tackle the problem I wanted to do it in a new language so I decided to go with Rust. I imported the code necessary at the top to use. I made a receiver and sender so it could record the data in the threads and have them run parallel. Before I ran the threads I started the timer and made a for loop that will spawn 8 threads. I had to clone the receiver so it could be use in the threads. Inside the threads I pass the sender and the chunk of distributed work for the threads. The first function will make a vector list then it will run a for loop for each number in that chunk and if the number is prime it will push the number into the list. When it is done with this process it will send the list to the receiver. Theres another function that is the one that check if the number is prime and it is a sqrt algorithm that will return true if the number is prime. After the for loop for the 8 threads is done we will drop the receivers and run a for loop for the receiver that basically store 8 different lists and  push their elements on a new list and summ the elements at the same time. After we will sort the list to print the results and we stop the timer since thats the total execution time

# Effectiveness
Im sure that I met all the assignment requirements except dividing the work among the threads evenly through execution time. i thought if i got the max number and just got 1/8 chunk per thread it will logically divide the work evenly but it doesn't work like that. I wasn't able to find a way to spread it evenly execution wise but if I did my runtime would be chilling.

I chose a slow algorithm to check if a number was prime because it was the one I understood the most and was learning a new language so I didn't feel comfortable using sieve. However, my program spawns 8 threads, shares the data between the threads trhough a receiver and runs at the same time/parallel.

If I were to optimize this program further I would choose the sieve method algorithm and learn to spread the work evenly execution time wise since the larger the numbers are the longer the execution will get for the thread so maybe check every number in each thread and have no thread check a number a thread has already check till 10^8.
